We've seen Claude releasing this 200line
code that brought the B2B market down.
We lost $300 billion of market value.
>> All of that is literally just beginning,
but is all line of sight.
>> This is Reed Hoffman, co-founder of
LinkedIn, legendary investor who was
among the first to see every major tech
wave [music] coming. And what he's
saying now should concern anyone with a
career.
>> There aren't individual contributing
workers anymore that we all deploy with
a set of AIS. So what what do I do? What
people like me do?
>> Even most people who say, "Oh yeah, I'm
using AI." are not using it seriously
enough.
>> You've been mentioning this a lot,
everyone will have a set of agents
working for them. Is it possible now or
we're still not quite there yet?
>> It's totally possible now.
>> So for someone who has a 9-5 job, what's
the first thing they should do to double
their income this year?
>> Oh, that's interesting. Maybe the
simplest one is
>> and we're super excited that we're
talking again a year later so we can
revisit some of the things that you said
last year. It's been a crazy year.
>> Yeah.
>> And I see Chad GPT everywhere. People
are using different tools to build their
own things. Is this the AI boom or is it
like 10% of what we're going to see?
>> Maybe 5%.
>> 5%.
>> Yeah. Obviously, last couple years
people have been talking about it a lot
and one of the things we should get you
and we'll figure out how to get to you,
but like I actually made an AI Christmas
record.
>> Um, you know, kind of AI music I'd want
to see around Christmas and it's just
beginning to scratch what these kind of
possibilities are. Cuz by the way, I'm
not qualified to make a record. Um, you
know, I have none of the skills, but
with AI, you can do that. And so what I
think people are undertracking is
they're seeing of course um the general
discussion of codecs and cloud code and
and other things and they're not
realizing how that spreads out to every
portion of of kind of human work and
creativity that it isn't just oh we all
have a software agent
as our co-pilot doing stuff for us. Yes,
that'll be true, too. But that the
coding capabilities are like generalized
reasoning capabilities that then enable
a bunch of things. They enable you to
say, well, you know what I've always
wanted for for someone working with me
as a travel agent, as someone who really
understood, you know, my love of
particular kinds of archaeology.
Could you then be the travel agent that
figured out like where and what and d
and could possibly book things and all
like all of that is literally just
beginning but is all line of sight. So I
think we're literally like for example
we're a small in number of years by
which we realize something I've been
saying for the last couple which is
there aren't individual contributing
workers anymore that we all deploy with
a set of AIs like for example um almost
for sure when we're doing this
conversation let's just project next
year since we did last year
>> we'll have you like your tablet will
have an AI agent that's going oh ask him
about this or when he said this do this
or you know like like that kind of thing
will be amongst what we're doing. That's
the reason why I'm like not 10% maybe 5%
maybe 2%.
>> Yeah.
>> And you said in our last interview that
we have around 2 years to adapt.
>> So as someone nontechnical I want to
start adapting.
>> So what do I do if I'm a creator, a
salesperson, a marketer? What are the
steps that I can take today? Well, table
stakes is if you're not already
interacting with,
you know, call it the easy AI agents,
the chat bots today and in a substantive
way. And I don't just mean that as a
substantive way of like, so for example,
you're you like you're thinking, okay,
how do I um take my podcast and and kind
of media to the next level? What are the
things I should consider? What are the
the different kinds of ideas for it? Or
I'm a travel I'm traveling to this fun
place. What should I do there? All this
stuff. But like for example some what I
mean by basics is in prompting you don't
just go oh I type in
seven words and see what I get. One of
the things I think is key now is being
voice build which is speak to it. We
speak a lot faster and it's actually
much much better if you just throw out
lots of things. But even in speaking to
it like one of the things that I'll do
when I'm interacting with with you know
various AI agents is I'll say really
interested in what are the prospects of
fusion technology which companies doing
really interesting things have new
things come from labs you d
>> now write me the right prompt to do all
the research for that.
>> Yeah
>> even when I do voicemail because then it
comes back with a two-page prompt and I
run the two-page prompt and then I get
something very interesting. So that's
what I mean that's I describe as basic.
That's
>> okay. This is basic.
>> Yeah, that's basic.
>> Talk to me about advanced but without
coding.
>> Like one of the things that as you begin
to get experience with this, you realize
that these chatbot agents are very good
at ascribing roles.
So, uh you might have an idea, but you
say, "Hey, I'm I have an interest in
let's just continue the fusion example.
I have an interest in fusion for climate
change and fusion for energy and what
it's going to mean for AI." Let's ask
that question. Get an answer like okay
what would a technologist say? What
would a venture investor say? What would
a government policy person say? What
would a nuclear safety person say? And
then you might even ask the the AI are
there other roles that I haven't thought
of and then you ask it to adopt each
role in giving you an answer because
then you begin to realize that there's a
whole lens of things and this thinking
about AI as like a consmate like you
know kind of role taker is useful
because even in very simple things like
you say well I I'd really like to argue
this like when I'm writing I do this and
I say well argue against me like what
what's what's the thing that that that's
a simple role like be the contrarian, be
the the naysayer to what I'm saying. By
the way, you can also get the and what
are things I'm missing to argue for what
I want to be.
>> That's a great exercise by the way.
>> Yes. So, so you do all that, but then it
also gets interesting when you kind of
go all right like for example, you say,
well, hey, I'm I'm thinking about how do
I what's the next generation of AI uh
impacting social media, internet media?
Like even the question you're asking,
it's a great question to go ask AI. is
like no you have to ask it in a way that
you're prompting it to do web research
that this is this is maybe a little bit
more on the slightly more advanced
question is what people don't realize is
they think this is a deeply
knowledgeable AI which it is they don't
realize it's training run finished 18
months ago so it's actually 18 months
out of date in the use of AI tools right
so when you're asking a question like
well which AI tools you actually have to
ask it a research question you have to
go look at pull a whole bunch of
information. It's like GBD 5.2 thinking
mode.
>> Yeah.
>> Pull in information and give me a report
on it. Because if you're relying on just
the information on the model, its view
of something that we're being 18 months
out of date is a problem.
>> Is a problem.
>> Can you evaluate my setup? For example,
I have a notion where we have the whole
operations. I have 35 people on my team.
We log every episode. We have a
transcript and then we have cloud
projects for every uh social media that
we're running which has access to
performance data scripts.
>> Uh it acts like a strategist. So we gave
it instructions so it knows what our
goals are.
>> Do you think it's easy, medium or
advanced? What else?
>> I would say that's probably medium.
>> Medium. Okay. So part of it is you've
got uh cloud agents uh with assigned
roles on a you know kind of constant
like you know an active part of the
process not oneoff.
>> Yeah.
>> So that takes you from easy to medium.
Okay. Right. Kind of doing that. Now on
advanced you probably want to say well
what are the additional skills and what
pulls from other sorts of data might be
useful
>> like should we have one that's kind of
going for example
>> talk to all the agents or all the the
projects and say is there through lines
like what can we derive from what's
working what's not working are there
through lives that can give us good
ideas for things we should be doing in
the next month or two
>> right like kind of doing almost like the
meta of it would be one thing and meta
both internal data but also external
data
>> like how other podcasters
>> and you might go this one did this
really interesting thing with and I'm
just choosing a random one crypto punks
and we could do something with that
right like that kind of thing like
>> yeah gathering ideas from other fields
for you
>> right and that that [clears throat]
would be the because because again part
of it is think about the AI agents as
intelligence that scales processes
information with basically the price of
electricity right like you price of
comput but price of computing
electricity. Well, that means it's like
in in the vectors where you can give it
instructions,
>> you don't want it to spend infinitely.
You could obviously easily spend
$200,000 on AI processing that's you not
useful. That is not useful. But in
anything where it's kind of bounded into
a vector that's useful, you go, "Well,
actually, in fact, spending even call it
$10,000 doing a bunch of compute could
suddenly give you
15 different useful things."
>> And that's easily valuable.
>> Yeah. So, for someone who's listening
who has a 9-5 job doing 80k and they're
like, "Okay, how do I use it to double
my income this year?" What would you
say?
>> Oh, that's interesting. Um
doubling income is an interesting
question. Um
partially because
maybe the simplest one is everyone who
is running businesses that they're
investing in
knows that they have a massive need for
AI transformation and AI talent. So part
of it is to start demonstrating your
engagement and knowledge with AI in ways
that you're easily findable because you
know whether it's through LinkedIn or
through social media platforms or else
>> like literally people are like we're
looking for this cuz we know we need
this transformation and so
>> I think a whole the the lucrative jobs
won't just be the super high price like
oh we need AI researchers but like we're
literally now I think this year is when
really begin to see more of the
applications.
So like how do I run my business better?
How do I do um like my analysis of my
supply chain or my financial analysis or
my risk analysis or my marketing or my
sales? How do I do any of that stuff
better? And they're going to start
looking at it. And sure, they'll go to
some other internal people, but
everyone's going to start going, well,
I've been doing this job and adopting
[clears throat] the jumping to the
totally new thing is hard for me. So
part of it is like okay start jumping to
the new thing.
>> Love it. So basically the business idea
or the double income idea you get
proficient in tools in some area and go
help other
>> and demonstrate it. Yes. And demonstrate
it
>> because I feel like we're also in a
bubble right where in Silicon Valley
everyone's using AI and then you travel
abroad and be like what?
>> Yes.
>> What what GPT?
>> Well yes with really interesting
asterises. So, like for example, I think
it was about 18 months ago, I was
talking to a friend of mine who was
traveling in Morocco and the taxi driver
who didn't speak English was making
their whole business work because they
were just using chat GBT as a
translator.
>> So, literally it was just like
>> people are figuring it out.
>> Yes, exactly.
>> It's just a beginner stage. But then you
need to become medium and advanced.
>> We've been talking with Reed about AI
changing how we work, how we build, how
we create. And I want to show you a tool
that we've actually been using on
Silicon Valley Girl for a while. This is
Hicksfield. You might have seen some of
my post with uh my dream guests for this
podcast and my dream blog in New York
City. Those videos and images were all
generated in Hicksfield. It is a
platform where you can get all the top
AI models in one place. Nana Banana,
Seance, Cling, Google Vio, Sora. You
don't need 10 subscriptions. Everything
is right there. Hickfield just dropped
Cinema Studio 2.0 and this is the next
level because it's not just an AI video.
It's closer to actual film making. You
start with a text prompt. You pick your
camera, your lens, your focal length
like you're setting up a real shoot
except you're doing it in your browser.
You generate an image and then you can
step inside it as a 3D scene. Move
around, find the exact angle you want,
and then you turn it into a video.
camera movements, pan, dolly, drone
shot. You just select it and it happens.
No timelines, no key frames, nothing.
You can build full sequences up to six
shots, each up to 12 seconds in 1080p.
You add characters, give them emotions,
write dialogue, and handles lip sync
automatically. Characters stay
consistent across every single shot. And
here's what got me. There are genre
presets: action, horror, comedy,
suspense. And they don't just change how
it looks. They change how it feels. A
horror sequence builds tension slowly.
Action speeds everything up. Comedy
holds the reaction shots longer for
timing. The genre actually shapes the
pacing of the whole scene. This is
probably the closest thing to real AI
film making that exists right now. Not
just clips, but actual scenes with
characters and story. If you want to try
it, I'll leave the link to Cinema Studio
20 in the description. All right, let's
get back to our interview with Reed.
Talk to me as an entrepreneur. So, I
built a company and I've been building
this business since 2011, helping people
learn languages, study abroad.
>> But from what I'm seeing right now with
these systems getting more and more
advanced, Codeex can now do the taste
thing, right, that we thought is
irreplaceable.
And then we've seen Claude releasing
this 200line code that brought the B2B
market down. We lost $300 billion of
market value. Is this the end of B2B
software or like
>> what's going on? what it was markets
tend to over time are very good
measurement devices but like can do
crazy short-term things short-term long
short-term low short-term high they can
do both
>> right because they they kind of don't
know how to absorb something and part of
what the transformation of the kind of
cult SAS B2B software market is it the
way it used to run is
>> I would build something you know kind of
valuable like Salesforce
and in building Salesforce um it would
take you Ultimately, I'd add in so many
features cuz one feature for company
one, one feature company two, three
features for company three. But having
them all there that for someone who
wanted to compete with me, they'd have
to spend a billion dollars just to
create the product to start the sales
thing against me. And even then, the
problem is that sales is a very hard
thing because what Salesforce is, we'll
be here forever. Do you want to switch
your mission critical system to the new
provider
>> who sure they spent a billion dollars
building the product but are they going
to be still be here or not? So it's very
hard to do and that's the economics that
created SAS is a valuable business
category because then Salesforce cuz it
was hard to get competition in could
charge I don't know what their actual
sales for margin let's call it 40%. You
know margins and that could allow them
to kind of reinvest in their business
and everything else. Now with AI coding,
it's like well actually in fact like I'm
company 4 and they had these two
features that I want. I didn't want all
of them
>> and there was another feature that
wasn't in there or another two features
weren't even in there that I really
wanted. Now it might just be more
economical for me to to kind of maintain
my own system in AI because generating
and maintaining and evolving the
software is is so much cheaper.
>> It is.
>> Right. One counterpoint because
everybody's like, "Oh, software
engineers are getting out of jobs." No,
they're not because they're going to be
employed everywhere. Like the grocery
store is going to be employing software
engineers and these things like
>> like you still need to think about this
like you say I want to have a CRM
system. You can't go to an AI and go
give me a CRM system.
>> What? No. What about two years?
>> Well, maybe eventually but like for
example part of I have confidence that
for a number of years and maybe it's a
shorter than I would believe the human
plus the AI will be much better,
>> right? like when you're understanding
like for example you know Sarah or Bob
is walking around they're looking at how
we use the CRM system and like oh but
this would be a good idea the area
doesn't really have that ability to walk
around and do it it'll have ability to
do internet research
>> and bring that in which is really useful
as per earlier comments
>> but um that's the reason why I think the
combo will be useful and that's reason I
think software engineers will have jobs
for a while because it's a way of
thinking about now how a software
engineer operates is already starting to
change. Like as opposed to the oh I'm
sitting down and typing code. It's like
well actually in fact I've got 20 coding
agents that I'm managing through voice
going generate this, generate this,
cross-check this, do that. Like I'm more
of a conductor than I am a violin player
or a piano player, right? Is kind of the
as thing. And that is changing. People
be surprised at how much room there is
in the business world for conductors.
>> Okay. But uh so I've heard this a lot on
social media and I feel like I'm kind of
starting to believe it that we only have
a few years
>> to make money as small business
entrepreneurs because then it's going to
be taken away by large models. Do you
agree with that?
>> Well, I do think that we're going to see
a sea of content creation by AI.
>> Yeah.
And um you know people say well but
people don't want that they want only
human and it's like well there will be a
persistent demand for human that's good
by the way just like there's elevator
music you know music in elevators and so
like there's lots of things out there
that people are not like well I'm really
looking to make sure it's only a person
who made that it's just does it fit my
particular need and circumstance is it
easily available is it free cheap not
expensive etc etc so there's going to be
a flood of stuff I do think that what
that means for small business is but it
may be a feature of small business
versus call it large businesses which is
small businesses usually tend to be able
to be more adaptive cuz our large
businesses are almost more on call it
the industrial model the tailor models
like we we tuned our efficiency and we
work really and we own these
distribution channels and we did a like
you know I love Disney so I'm not
picking on Disney but like Disney as
doing it small business adopt AI I think
will have a lot of interesting unique
shots because of the platform transition
and so it'll be an advantage to them
versus the large companies. The small
businesses don't adopt AI. I think it's
going to be very hard.
>> What would be your advice then for
entrepreneurs who are building a smaller
AI business AI based business and are
afraid that two weeks somebody releases
like with SAT prep cuz I'm in test prep.
>> Yes,
>> J and I released SAT prep. I'm like okay
my thing is TOEFL. When is TOEFL coming
to Gemini?
>> Probably very soon, but you know, sorry
to say um did I just register your
specific question, but my guess is it's
very soon.
>> So what what do I do?
>> What do people like me do?
>> Well, I think what you do is you
refactor to go, look, I realize I'm
going to have to rebase my entire
business on AI and AI is a dynamic
changing platform. So in as much as it's
not toolled on AI, I got to retool. Now
part of it is that okay TOEFL will be
available on AI platforms for
entrepreneurial or kind of call it
people who want to pull it together
themselves just as they were pulling
together through Google searches
whatever else for free so that so what's
the things I can do that cause people to
engage with me
>> yeah what's my value ad right
>> okay build a personal brand we're doing
this yeah
>> is there anything else
>> well that's definitely one but it's also
like you could imagine it's like well
actually in fact most of these you know
like Gemini chatbt
Claude, etc. will be solo experiences
for a number of years. We're going to be
so focused on solo experiences. Well,
maybe there's ways we can do group
experiences and the group experiences
really work. And it doesn't mean that,
you know, you can't inject, you know,
chat GBT into a group experience and
have it, you know, be useful, but maybe
like it's like what are the ways that we
use this trajectory and then we are
adding in something else because it's
not going to be like for example, you
say, well, but it could do that itself
or someone who says I want to do it
myself. Sure. But people don't want to
do everything themselves. Yeah. One,
they don't have the ideas. Two, they
don't have the time. I think AI
prompting is only going to slowly like
at human speeds grow as an like I even
talked to people who are pretty expert
and they go, "Oh, wait a minute. I was
voice build, but I wasn't doing it. Tell
me the write the prompt for me."
>> Yeah.
>> Off it.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> It takes it to the next level because
the problem's like this.
>> Yes. Right. That kind of thing.
>> This is very interesting. If you're
watching this, you are probably thinking
about growing your own LinkedIn profile.
Here's what we found. The people
crushing it aren't guessing what to
post. They have a system. That's why we
built a free database of 300 post ideas.
It's literally 300 readyto-use post
ideas you can use across your LinkedIn
right now. We organize the ideas based
on audience's segment, type of content
to use, whether it's an image or text or
video, frequency, because you can post
one idea multiple times, and even time
needed to create. If it sounds good to
you, we're giving it for free to my
inner circle newsletter subscribers,
which is again, it's free to subscribe.
Link is in the comments. Grab it and
you're set for the next year of content.
So, are there any industries that you
think are more? So from what you're
saying like groups experience everything
I feel like offline is going to get way
bigger just want to stay off our devices
and do things
>> any other markets
>> well offline for sure. Um I also think
like I said we are social animals but
that's the reason why the groups and not
just you know being one of the earliest
social network people LinkedIn etc. Um,
but I think that will matter. Even as
these AI systems get a lot of
capability, there still will be
uncertainties and trust. And part of the
uncertainties and trust is the incentive
of who of the entity that's offering it
versus others. And there's ways that we
and it kind of gets back to the personal
personal brand, but
>> the set of things that kind of get to
like how is that trust established and
maintained? Um, we're both familiar from
our Silicon Valley context. You know,
there's obviously a whole bunch of
people say everything that's done with
bits is going to be completely done with
AI and that's it.
I'd be very surprised if that were true.
M
>> like that would be what I think is going
to be massively transformed. So anything
that's being done with bits in a
particular way today will be very
different in 6 months, 12 months, 18
months, 24 months, etc. And you have to
adapt to it, adapt to it and adopt it.
But I tend to think there's still like
for like oh well I shouldn't bother
writing science fiction anymore. It's
like it's not clear to me. Like I think
writing science fiction could still
work. But if your process of writing
science fiction is I disappear for three
years into a cubicle, you know, kind of
typing on my
it's going to work. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Okay. Do you think AI is the last
human-driven revolution and all of the
next revolutions will be AI
>> uh [clears throat] created?
I think it's call it probability
60 to 70% that the um future inventions
over the next call it 50 to 100 years
who knows after about that will be human
plus AI created um it doesn't mean that
there won't like every human doing an
invention might not be actually in fact
using AI to do it. Um, I have some
actually, you know, kind of
unfortunately some things I can't talk
about because they're confidential, but
like they will be revealed in the next
month is around like physicists working
with AI to do stuff. And it's not it's
not oh my god, we discovered what dark
matter is, but solving physics problems,
but it's the human plus AI together. And
I think
>> 60 70%.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Then I think there is of like
inventions and then I think there's
probably going to be call it another 25%
30% depending on where it is exactly
that is actually in fact primarily
AIdriven right over time in part because
we'll begin to kind of get zones of oh
that's a much better a problem for the
AI to solve and there might be some
human checking in [snorts]
>> but it won't even be that depth of being
a conductor. It would be more like
cross-checking the hey you know or does
this make sense or could I spend $10
million doing the compute to analyze
fusion containment in the following way
and you're like well $10 million is a
lot of money you know if it's in today's
dollars you let's cross check it and
then I think there will be still 5%
that's still the human eureka like
without AI
>> okay only 5% for
>> yes well with unassisted unassisted
>> unassisted unassisted okay so sounds
good sounds positive Okay, my last
question. It is February 2026. If you
could give one piece of advice to
someone watching now, uh what is one
thing they should do before February
2027 to not get left behind?
>> Well, the very central thing a little
bit like what echoes what we were
talking about before is
even most people who say, "Oh yeah, I'm
using AI are not using it seriously
enough, right?" which is like I in
everything that I do I think about how
would I use I don't always do it because
you don't always have to and certainly
not now but how would I use AI to help
me do that or to to make that happen and
it ranges everything from I'm planning a
vacation in Rome to
I am thinking about writing a piece or
what's the way that I would analyze
what's going on with Malta in the whole
range. I think, okay, if I were going to
try to use AI to really help with that,
what what might I do? And and
[clears throat] having that kind of
always be a question. And it look, it
could even be the I'm going to have a
difficult conversation with my mother.
Okay, think about how AI could help with
that. Like just get in the reflex. Think
of it as kind of doing like just the
like simple training like
>> before everything you do just think
about how you could deploy AI to
>> and you might go no I'm not going to do
this one that's fine because you limited
time and all the rest but like be
thinking about that because that is a
reflex because literally my belief is
today everything you do AI can be
helpful doesn't mean it's the answer.
So, for example, I still wouldn't go,
here's the money I'm investing in AI,
just have an AI do it. I think that
would be a way to lose money
>> today, [laughter] right?
>> I'm still doing it myself. Yeah.
>> But I also, by the way, think about like
what new capabilities the AI is bringing
to my ability to invest, including an
AI.
>> Absolutely love it. Thank you so much.
And thank you from everyone who's
posting on LinkedIn. I feel like
[clears throat] 2025 was the year of
LinkedIn when we all saw tremendous
growth and so many great deals. So,
thank you so much for creating it.
>> My pleasure.